---
pageKey: page_home
locale: en
seo_title: Homepage Title EN
seo_desc: Biography
title: Home en
text: Some content en
---
#### **Biography**

Veronica Mockler was born in Quebec City (QC, Canada) in 1991. She graduated with Distinction from Concordia University (BFA Studio Arts) in 2015 after living and studying abroad in the Republic of Ireland. Mockler has since been based in Tiohtià:ke/Montréal (QC, Canada) where she works as a professional artist creating socially engaged dialogic art. Her work has been featured in exhibitions, festivals, conferences, community and public spaces, namely: Women Cinema Makers (Berlin, Germany), Ammerman Center's Biennial of Art and Technology (New London, CT, U.S.A.), Gstaad International Art Film Festival (Montevideo, Uruguay), Third Shift Festival (Saint John, NB, Canada), Maison des Artistes Visuels (Winnipeg, MA, Canada) Redding Flagg Gallery (Toronto, ON, Canada), Manif d’art Biennale (Québec, QC, Canada), ATSA at Place des Arts, Cinéma Sous les Étoiles, Centre for Oral History and Digital Storytelling, Eastern Bloc, Dazibao, Maison de la culture du Plateau-Mont-Royal, Vidéographe (Tiohtià:ke/Montréal, QC, Canada). The artist is the co-founder of *[Visible](https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/cdn-housing-experience-performance-1.5148645)*, a Tiohtià:ke/Montréal art collective that highlights the power of citizen expression through performative, digital and diversified gatherings. She also co-founded *[Womxn Walk the Walk](https://womenwalkmontreal.tumblr.com/)* collective in Tiohtià:ke/Montréal, a sister initiative to Brooklyn's League of Women Walkers. The artist has been the recipient of awards and grants for her work, both in Canada and abroad from various entities. The artist draws from many fields, forms and practices: oral history, documentary essay, public pedagogy, community development, nonfiction new media, performance art, dialogic art practices, activism, art education, and more. 

Mockler is now conducting research-creation in performance art, social practice, public pedagogy and oral history within an Individualized Graduate Program (Master of Arts) she designed for herself. Her research entitled *Real Face Time as Art: Speech Acts for Social Transformation* delves deeply into the power of face-to-face interaction and what politically transpires when people express personal experiences and points of view with Others. Mockler is looking at how to facilitate such interactions and how—when devised as contemporary art—these encounters can socially transform participating interlocutors and audiences. Her research is supported by the Acts of Listening Lab (Centre for Oral History and Digital Storytelling) under the primary supervision of Canada's Research Chair (RC) in Oral History Performance, and the secondary supervisions of Concordia's RC in Socially Engaged Art and Public Pedagogies and Canada's RC in Oral History.

*Veronica Mockler tackles a wide range of social issues by presenting the stories of those affected by these issues. Her experimental video installations and performances have been described as a "call to action" "blending \[of] humour with sobering realism", as well as sometimes "leaving you with a haunting question"*. — (La Presse, 2019) 

For more information on her experience, awards and press, [please click here (CV)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1oONqAnCmwYJ8i0XJxqf3JVO2GSeVfKN2/view?usp=sharing)



#### **Artist Statement**

I collaborate with people to present their reality to audiences in order to socially challenge these audiences. I hope to fill part of the gap that technology creates between real human connection and virtual media connectedness. I work on projects in and out of the gallery space by collaborating with individuals on their self-assertion in the white cube and by summoning different audiences to listen to these same individuals in alternative spaces. I personally hold any art production socially accountable and thereby dedicate my practice to the deactivation of colonialism, capitalism and individualism. My position as a white, Western, straight, typical, human comes with social privileges. Every day, I try to work towards better understanding my privileged position and its implication on art-making and collaboration with other people. My goal is to explore, through the sharing of expertise and art, how people can determine their own representation in the public realm. The practice of presenting discourse that is not mine is an ethically, politically and aesthetically complex endeavour. This complexity is what drives me, is what motivates me. I never stop learning.
